Let us take finding the linked list loop length code
and modify it
We can rename the function to find loop start and
to store the length of the loop,
let us declare a variable lenght. Once we find the
loop,
That is when slow equal to fast
Calculate the loop length and store it in
variable length. So write len equal to calculate length
of slow and break out of the loop
Using the loop length, we can find the starting point
of the loop.
So now let us write a function
Get start to find the starting point of linked list loop
For that, we need to pass the head of the
linked list and loop length as parameters.
So write return
getStart(head,length)
Now we can write the logic for finding the starting
point of the loop.
So the function takes the head of the linked list
and length of the loop as input and returns the
starting point of the loop which is of the type struct node *
So first we need to declare two pointers ptr1
and ptr2 and initialise both to
head of the linked list
So write struct node *ptr1 equal
to head and *ptr to equal to head
Now we need to move ptr2 loop length times
ahead. So use a while loop
So write while loopLength greater than zero, ptr2
equal to ptr2 next and decrement loop length. So
write loopLength --
After that, we need to increment both ptr1
and ptr2 until they meet.
So write while ptr1 not equal to ptr2
ptr1 equal to ptr1 next and ptr2
equal to ptr2 next
Now we have found the starting point of the loop.
so we can return it. So write return ptr1
which will be the starting point of
the loop and it will be returned by our function.